---
layout: post
title:  Using Git and GitHub
author: Colin Ponce
date:   2015-08-28
tags:   git
---

There were some questions in class yesterday on how to use git and GitHub. This
post will attempt to clarify that process. This is not a complete overview of
all possible functionality, just what you need to know for this class.

### What is git?

Git is software; in particular, it is a distributed revision control
system. That means that allows teams of people in different places to jointly
and asynchronously work on a common project. It supports creating local copies
of a locally hosted project, updating the remote project, merging updates that
different people have made, creating branches of projects, and more. It's
usually used for code, though one can certainly use it for other types of
projects!

### What is GitHub?

GitHub is a website and a hosting platform for git projects. You can remotely
store your projects on GitHub, and then access them with git.  GitHub also
provides extra functionality such as access control, project forking, and
discussion. GitHub is free, but all hosted repositories are public by
default. GitHub offers paid plans that allow a user to set repositories to
private.

## Some terms to know

**Fork.** This takes an existing repository that you may or may not own and
  creates a new copy that you own. This is a *GitHub* action, not a git action.

**Clone.** (Command: `git clone [URL]`) This creates a local copy of a remote
  repository on your system.

**Pull.** (Command: `git pull`) This updates your local copy of a repository
  with any changes that have occurred at the remote repository.

**Add.** (Command: `git add [filename]`) Just because you created a new file on
  your machine in the same directory as your local copy of a repository doesn't
  mean it's in the git repository. You add the file the get git to track it.

**Commit.** (Command: `git commit -a -m "[message]"`) Just because you modified
  some files on your local repository doesn't mean git is tracking those
  changes. You commit those changes to record them. The -a flag commands git to
  record all changes to all tracked files. The -m flag precedes a [written
  message][1] describing the changes.

**Push.** (Command: `git push`) Just because you've locally added some files or
  recorded some changes doesn't mean those changes are reflected in the remote
  repository. You must push those changes to the remote repository. Note that
  you must have write permissions for your change to be accepted. Wanting to
  make changes to a project on which you lack write permissions is a common
  reason to **fork** a repository.

**Pull Request.** If you have pushed changes to a forked repository and want
  that change to be reflected in the original repository, you make a pull
  request. The owners of the original repository can then review the pull
  request and accept or reject it. This is a *GitHub* action, not a git
  action. Note that in this class, we will use pull requests as a mechanism for
  turning in assignments. We can access the contents of a pull request without
  accepting it, and so in that way access your submission.

## An insolent-octo-spork demonstration

You can access the [class GitHub page][2] through the [class website][3]. There
you can see a list of the various repositories we maintain for this class. We
will run through an example of using git and GitHub on the insolent-octo-spork
repository. You are encouraged to follow along and do the same on your
machine. Note that you need a GitHub account for this; if you don't already have
one, you should make one now.


[1]: https://xkcd.com/1296/
[2]: https://github.com/cornell-cs5220-f15/
[3]: http://cornell-cs5220-f15.github.io/


Intel has a [free software for students][1] program with which you can
get personal access to Intel Parallel Studio.  This may be useful if
you want to develop on your own machines (we have an academic version
of Parallel Studio installed on the totient cluster).

[1]: https://software.intel.com/en-us/qualify-for-free-software/student
