---
layout: post
title:  State of the class, week 2
author: David Bindel
date:   2015-08-31 17:23:33 -0400
tags:   git
---

Welcome to week 2 of CS 5220!  The class is now at 114 students,
representing a wide array of disciplines and backgrounds.  Only 75 of
you have [submitted HW0][hw0]; for those who have not submitted,
please do submit!  Note that we're using CMS for *just this homework*
so that there's no issues with linking netids to GitHub IDs for those
of you who value your privacy.

We are continuing work on the class cluster, and the issues with home
directories should at this point be resolved.  If you are still having
trouble accessing your home directory, please email me.  When you do
log into the cluster, you can get access to a standard set of tools
with the command

    module load cs5220

This gets you up-to-date versions of several utilities, as well as
the Intel compiler toolchain.  The actual contents of the `cs5220`
module may change a bit as we continue to get things set up.

Narrated notes for Tuesday's lecture on architecture basics are
up [in][lec1] [three][lec2] [parts][lec3].  Thursday's notes are
in process, though not up yet.  I think I'll be able to
get the lecture notes up faster in the future -- much of the time
spent on the class this past week has been spent on administrative
stuff (like installing software on the cluster) that I hope will
not take so much time as we get into the semester.  Colin and I felt
like the Etherpad worked out well last week, but I was probably
talking too much; I hope you'll try to take the time to look at the
slides (and [exercises][exercises]) before class, and we'll try to
make the actual class time a little more interactive.  Again, bring
your laptops if you have them (and bring a pad of paper as well).

As a point of clarification, I would ideally like the lecture
responses to be submitted via *one* GitHub pull request that lasts
for the full semester.  We'll close the requests at the end of the
semester.  Please name the pull request "HW: blah" (where "blah"
is whatever title you feel is most appropriate).

Also as a point of clarification: the `demo` repository that I
referred to last week (and the `membench` repository that I refer
to this week) are ordinary repositories on GitHub.  If you would
like to build the software from these repositories on the totient
cluster, I recommend using `git clone` to clone the repository
to your totient home directory.  You can then pull updates via
`git pull origin`.

If you're still confused by the whole business of using Git, Colin has
put up a post about it; also, see the [readings page](/readings.html)
for recommended background reading on the topic.

[hw0]: https://github.com/cornell-cs5220-f15/hw0
[lec1]: http://cornell-cs5220-f15.github.io/slides/2015-09-01-arch.html
[lec2]: http://cornell-cs5220-f15.github.io/slides/2015-09-01-parallel.html
[lec3]: http://cornell-cs5220-f15.github.io/slides/2015-09-01-memory.html
[exercises]: https://github.com/cornell-cs5220-f15/lecture
